- [Instructor] So far, we have seen how can we create
a multi-container application, deploy them on a single host
on a multi-node using Docker Machine
and multi-node using Docker for AWS.
Now, those containers were all stateless containers,
but we then ran a little bit of call trace,
but the state was maintained within the container itself.
Let's take a look at how can we create Couchbase cluster
using Docker Services.
Now, Couchbase is NoSQL document database,
and it has homogeneous architecture.
What that means is there is no master, no slave.
The way you create a Couchbase cluster is you spin up
one Couchbase node, another Couchbase node,
and the third Couchbase node.
You pick any random node and add
the other two nodes to that first node,
and that makes a homogeneous Couchbase cluster.
But in order to automate it, in order to simplify
the process, we need to have this concept
of a master service, quote-unquote.
So we can make a master service with a single replica.
This allows us to uniquely identify a node
to which other nodes can be added.
Then, we're going to make a worker service,
and this worker service could have up to three replicas,
certainly more, but for demo purposes, we will show three.
And then, as soon as this service starts up,
these nodes will join the master service,
forming a Couchbase cluster.
And the key part that I want to highlight here
is how the images that are used in all of these containers
or services are exactly alike, and that's what makes sense,
that this is actually a homogeneous Couchbase cluster.
So, let's first take a look at how this image is created,
and then we'll show you live in action.
I'm in the browser here, and I am going to go to my repo
where all the details are available.
Here is my docker-images repo,
and I'm looking at the Couchbase folder over there.
If I look at the Dockerfile, it chooses couchbase:latest
as the base image, and there,
it's using a configure-node.sh script,
and this configure-node.sh script is used as a command.
So let's look back here on configure-node.sh script here.
We have seen this script earlier.
So the REST API is from line 9 to 21.
It's configuring the server.
If we go down here, it takes three environment variables.
The first is a type.
Type could be a worker or a master.
Well, if it's a master, nothing happens,
but if it's a worker, go from line 25 to 39
to configure the server.
The second environment variable it takes is $AUTO_REBALANCE.
Now, if you're adding a node to the cluster,
you want the data to be rebalanced across the cluster.
So that is what this variable indicates.
$AUTO_REBALANCE could be true or false.
Either way, the node needs to be added to the cluster,
so it also needs to know what is the location
of the Couchbase master.
So essentially, it takes three variables:
worker, $AUTO_REBALANCE, and $COUCHBASE_MASTER.
Let's go ahead and create our cluster now.
I'm in my terminal here.
Now that we are in chapter five,
let's go to the chapter five directory
in exercise files as well.
And if I do docker info,
you can see, it's running.
First of all, the Experimental mode is true,
so make sure you have installed Experimental mode over here.
We talked about installing this in an earlier version,
and if I go up here, it says Swarm is inactive.
So let's initialize our Swarm, because that's
what will allow us to create the services.
So, docker swarm init.
This is the only node in the cluster,
so it started up as a manager node.
Now, in here, I'm going to create a network,
so docker network create,
and I'm going to create this as an overlay network,
call it couchbase.
Overlay network is important because this
will allow the containers across multiple nodes
to communicate with each other.
Let's take a look at my networks here.
There are other networks here as well.
What we care about the couchbase network,
driver is overlay, and scope is swarm.
Let's create our master service.
Docker service create.
That's our command.
We're going to give it a name.
Couchbase-master.
We're going to make a single replica here.
We're going to use the network couchbase.
We're going to expose the port 8091 only.
That is for administrative purposes,
and now we need to specify the environment variable.
We're going to call it as master.
And then finally, we need to use our image,
arungupta/couchbase.
Let's create our service.
Once the service is created, we can take a look at it.
Docker service ls.
One of one replica is now created for us,
so that's kind of cool.
Now, let's go to the browser
and take a look at how my administrative console,
the Couchbase web console, looks like.
The Couchbase web console is accessible at
localhost:8091.
Well, it's showing a setup screen,
because at this point of time, my container is not
fully up yet, and we can verify that by going back
to our terminal and looking at the logs for the service.
In here, I can say docker service logs,
and I'm going to give it the service name,
and just say, follow the logs along.
It takes about 25 to 30 seconds for the Couchbase container
to come up, and that is primarily because that is
how we configured it into the configure-node.sh script
that goes in the Docker file.
So depending upon when do you try to access
the Couchbase web console, you might see a setup page,
or if a few seconds have already passed by,
then you might just see the login page,
which doesn't show up until later in the video.
So don't panic if you see a login page.
Just keep going forward, and then you will see
a login page and the credentials
to be able to log in to the Couchbase console.
And this shows now that my server is now fully configured.
This is the output from the REST, and it says
couchbase-master.1, meaning this is the first instance
of the container that is running.
As mentioned earlier, make sure an edge build is being used,
which will have the experimental features automatically
enabled, or if you're using a stable build,
then make sure you enable the experimental features.
Either way, if you have the logs not working,
it doesn't break your build anyway.
You won't be able to see only the logs part of it.
Let's go back to the browser, and here, if I refresh
the page now, I'm prompted with a login and a password.
My default login here is Administrator,
and password is Password.
Let's sign in.
This is my Couchbase web console.
If I look at the server nodes,
it shows only a single node exists.
So that's kind of cool.
We have been able to create a simple Couchbase node here.
Let's create a Couchbase cluster by using a new service.
Let's get out of the logs here
and now, I'm going to create another service.
I'm going to name it Couchbase-worker.
To begin with, I'll have a single replica.
I want to use the same network,
and I'm going to give the environment variable type
as worker, and I need to also give it the location
for the Couchbase master,
so COUCHBASE_MASTER,
and this, for us, is going to be
the service name qualified by the network name.
Important part to remember is this name could differ
depending upon where you are running,
if you are running on the single node or the multiple nodes.
Just watch out for that.
And finally, I'm going to say I don't want the auto balance
to automatically kick in, so instead of true,
I'll say false, and once again,
I need to give it my image name here.
So this is creating my worker service.
Let's take a look at docker service ls.
One of one is automatically created for my worker service,
and I can, once again, look at the logs
for the worker service.
It waits for a few seconds before it can start
using the REST API to configure Couchbase.
Okay, now this is, once again, worker.1.
REST API is being used to configure it,
and it identified the type as worker,
so it's going to configure it to make sure
that this is part of the cluster.
And here, my Couchbase CLI, which is included as part
of the container itself, is using the server-add API
to configure the Couchbase worker to be part of the cluster.
Now that the server is fully configured,
let's go back to the Couchbase web console.
And right away, we see here,
Pending Rebalance tab with one over here.
What that means is there's one node
that is pending rebalance.
The IP address for the original node here is 10.0.0.3.
If I look here, this is 10.0.0.5.
And now I can click on Rebalance,
and the cluster is fully rebalanced.
And this was a rather quick process,
because there is no data buckets available in here,
but you get the point.
Now, let's go back
and see how we're going to scale such cluster.
Let's get out of the logs, and all I'm going to do is
docker service scale, that's my command here,
and I'm going to say couchbase-worker, and to two.
Services scale to two.
Let's take a look at the services.
It says two of two replicas are running.
Now, the container is up and running,
but is my application logic up and running?
Let's take a look at that by following the logs here.
Now, here, you see, still couchbase-worker.1 is there,
so that means the second container
in this service has not started yet.
It should be starting any minute now.
And there you go.
Now I can see the output from couchbase-worker.2,
and these are the output form my REST API,
and then finally, it'll configure that node
to be part of the Couchbase cluster as well.
And that's my output from Couchbase CLI
and that is fully configured.
Now, let's go back to the browser
and once again, I see Pending Rebalance,
and I just hit the button Rebalance,
and voila, we've got a three-node Couchbase cluster
created using Docker Services.
So just to clean up our setup,
we're going to go, remove the services,
and the network.
Get out of the log here.
Docker service rm.
Let's remove the worker.
Let's remove the master, so the services are gone.
Let's verify it.
Services are indeed gone.
And we can say docker network rm couchbase,
and we can verify that again, docker network ls.
The network is gone as well.
So in this section,
we saw how you could use Couchbase, a popular NoSQL
document database to create a cluster very easily
using Docker Services.
The concepts were shown using Couchbase,
but they would certainly be applicable to any other
database, relational, non-relational, doesn't matter,
but it gives you an idea on how you can set up
a database cluster.